---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Right or Wrong
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-04-23
labels:
  - Ethics
---

To put it simply, ethics to me is making decisions between right and wrong. Generally it would be favored if everyone adhered to do what the morally right thing to do is. As young software engineers we don't really think about the ramifications that the code we write could bring about. We try to solve a problem in whatever way we know how best to solve that problem. However, trying to solve a problem can create problems that we wouldn't have foreseen. We've mostly been coding for ourselves which is fine for school homework but we haven't really been thinking about what if I gave this code to an employer and what could happen. It's hard to think about the negatives that solving a problem can bring which we'll be able to see below about a guy who without thinking about it, helped a company push an ad for a drug that could cause suicidal tendicies. To me ethics in software engineering is sort of like the measure of having a community driven mentality. 

Bill describes [here](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/the-code-im-still-ashamed-of-e4c021dff55e/#.tsjl7lkxy) about the code he is still ashamed of. He writes about a piece of code he wrote when he was still starting out. He was tasked with coding a quiz that asked about the symptons someone is experiencing and based on the reponses given, would recommend a certain drug to help alleviate them. However, this was pretty much an ad disguised as a helpful quiz because it would almost always recommend one drug as the best choice. Bill thought of it as just a marketing tactic and didn't think about possible consequences it could have. Later he learned that the possible side effects were depression and suicidal tendacies and that a young girl had committed suicide after taking the drug. Whether she found the drug through the quiz or not, it is something he should've thought about.

Bill, like possibly most people, unfortunately didn't take the time to really think about possible effects the code can cause. As software engineers we need to really view the products we help put out to be our own creation. About how you would want to be viewed by the public if it was your face on the cover of it. The ethical implications in Bills case was that he didn't follow code 3.03 because he didn't address the ethical issue of this quiz being targeted more for younger girls and then showing its own drug as the best no matter the results of said quiz. If it were a simple ad promoting the drug that wouldn't be as bad but since you take a quiz to see it after, the quiz makes it seem valid. As if you're being recommended the best drug for your symptoms when really it's just showing this one drug. This in turn violates code 1.2 of the code of ethics that is to avoid harm. They might not mean to but this can unintentionally harm others as they might think they found the best product for them, when really, they shouldn't be taking it, or there could be a better product out there.

Overall, taking this time to read through the code of ethics and the various case studies has been an invaluable experience for me. It gave me some real world examples about lapses in ethical conduct that I will be able to bring forward through my software development career. As in Bills case, he was new to his team and perhaps was focused on just getting the product out for the client. This is why it's important to learn and be able to recognize the possible reach your code can have. You may see yourself as small compared to the company you're working for which can make it seem scary to question the code you might get asked to write. However, standing up and raising concern if something doesn't seem right is the best thing to do. Seeing as we all are one big community, we should be treating each other as such.

