---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Happy Dev, Happy Client, Happy Customer
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-02-27
labels:
  - UI Framework
---

UI Frameworks can be a great tool in helping front end developers create a nice looking website efficiently and fast. In fact, they let anyone with just the basic knowledge of html create a good looking site without knowing the css that's behind the scenes. This is great for someone who just needs a website because it doesn't require them to take the extra time figuring out what margin to set or why their image doesn’t line up. We are in a digital era where everything is online which makes having a website for your store something that is expected. I would say using a UI framework shines most for small sites like a personal webpage or general information about your store. They can make it simple and user friendly to get sites looking good to be up and running in no time.

Not only are UI frameworks useful for the absolute beginner, but they definitely expand out to seasoned professionals as well. UI Frameworks such as Twitter Bootstrap or Semantic UI, the one we are learning now in class, are similar to using an IDE like Eclipse or IntelliJ, such that you don’t need to use them however they help in making development faster and more efficient. Being a professional, that is something you would want to take advantage of for some sites. No matter how good you are, any extra help goes the long way in making sure the result is clean, nice and gets to the client in a reasonable time frame. Not only do they help with getting the job done but with collaborating with others too. If someone else where to pick up the project where you left off, for them looking through the css and all the classes can take time and might get confusing if they try to tweak some settings. However, seeing a framework used, generally there is less css used so it would take less time and effort in making changes or getting familiar with the project.

Does this all mean that UI frameworks should be used all the time? Absolutely not. While they are useful in a lot of cases, there are some things you want to implement yourself in pure css. When it gets to the point where you’re heavily customizing divs with the framework classes and adding css so the padding and multiple other elements are looking how you want then maybe should just use css to get what you’re going for. Perhaps you want to create a unique site that’s not like the majority of what you normally see and it requires a lot of unique parts to it. So sometimes frameworks shouldn’t be used. Also, UI frameworks should definitely not be a replacement to learning css. Understanding the foundation first is important because it’ll help you be able to more understand what the keyword you’re typing into the div is really doing. Imagine you’re going into an interview and asked to do something. If you can only give the answer while using the framework keywords and no other way, that’s going to look pretty bad on your part.
